.\" Manpage for hawkeye.
.\" Contact igor@igorpartola.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "14 Aug 2013" "0.2" "hawkeye man page"

.SH NAME
hawkeye \- USB webcam MJPEG streaming server

.SH SYNOPSIS

Usage: hawkeye [-d] [-c config] [-H host] [-p port] [-w www-root] [-P pidfile]
       [-l logfile] [-u user] [-g group] [-F fps] [-D video-devices] [-W width]
       [-G height] [-j jpeg-quality] [-L log-level] [-f format] [-A user:pass]
.br
Usage: hawkeye [--daemon] [--config=path] [--host=host] [--port=port]
       [--www-root=path] [--pid=path] [--log=path] [--user=user] [--group=group]
       [--fps=fps][--devices=video-devices] [--width=width] [--height=height]
       [--quality=quality] [--log-level=log-level] [--format=format]
       [--auth=user:pass]
.br
hawkeye [-v]
.br
hawkeye [-h]

.SH DESCRIPTION
hawkeye is an video streamer that will serve video from a USB webcam over
HTTP as an MJPEG stream. It has very basic HTTP functionality but is able
to password protect the video streams and use HTTPS to encrypt all
communication between the client and the server.

.SH OPTIONS
hawkeye takes a number of options which can also be configured via the config
file. See the hawkeye.conf file in your docs directory for additional
configuration parameters. Note that all arguments are optional and sane
defaults will be used if not supplied.

.TP
\fB-c \fIpath\fB | --config\fI=path\fR
Path to the configuration file to use.

.TP
\fB-d\fR
If supplied, hawkeye will fork into the background.

.TP
\fB-H \fIhost\fB | --host\fI=host\fR
The host/IP address to listen on. The default is "localhost".

.TP
\fB-p \fIport\fB | --port\fI=port\fR
Port number of the server. Default is 8000.

.TP
\fB-w \fIpath\fB | --www-root\fI=path\fR
Path to the static files you want hawkeye to serve. Default is "", which
means serving static files is disabled.

.TP
\fB-P \fIpath\fB | --pid\fI=path\fR
Path to pidfile. If left out of the command line options and the config file,
PID will not be written to a file.

.TP
\fB-l \fIpath\fB | --log\fI=path\fR
The location of hawkeye's log file. If not supplied, stdout will be used.

.TP
\fB-u \fIuser\fB | --user\fI=user\fR
Normally, hawkeye will start as root, but can drop privileges once it has
initialized. This option specifies the user. Note that you must also specify
the --group option for privileges to be dropped.

.TP
\fB-u \fIuser\fB | --user\fI=user\fR
Normally, hawkeye will start as root, but can drop privileges once it has
initialized. This option specifies the group. Note that you must also specify
the --user option for privileges to be dropped.

.TP
\fB-F \fIfps\fB | --fps\fI=fps\fR
Desired framerate. Default is 5.

.TP
\fB-D \fIvideo-device\fB | --device\fI=video-device\fR
Video input device to use. Default is /dev/video0.

.TP
\fB-W \fIwidth\fB | --width\fI=width\fR
Width of the video input. Default is 640.

.TP
\fB-G \fIheight\fB | --height\fI=height\fR
Height of the video input. Default is 480.

.TP
\fB-j \fIjpeg-quality\fB | --quality\fI=quality\fR
JPEG quality if using the YUV format. Range is from 1 to 100. Default is 80.

.TP
\fB-L \fIlog-level\fB | --log-level\fI=log-level\fR
Log level to use. Default is "info". Possible values are debug, info,
warning,and error.

.TP
\fB-f \fIformat\fB | --format\fI=format\fR
The input format to use. Default is "mjpeg". Possible values are "mjpeg",
and "yuv". MJPEG is preferred. If your camera does not support it,
YUV can be used, but it will be CPU-bound as it has to compress raw YUV
frames to JPEG. If you specify "mjpeg" and the input does not support it,
the input will fall back to YUV.

.TP
\fB-A \fIuser:pass\fB | --auth\fI=user:pass\fR
Basic HTTP username and password. If you are using the "cert" and "key"
option for securing the HTTP connection using SSL, you may set the username
and the password using this option. Note that without SSL the values of the
username and the password are visible to anyone and should not be set.

.TP
\fB-C \fIcert-file\fB | --cert\fI=cert-file\fR
Path to the public SSL certificate to use for the server. If you specify
this option, you must also specify the SSL private key (-k or --key).

.TP
\fB-k \fIkey-file\fB | --key\fI=key-file\fR
Path to the SSL private key to use for the server. If you specify
this option, you must also specify the public certificate (-C or --cert).

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Print version of the hawkeye executable.

.TP
\fB-h\fR
Prints the help info for this executable.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
hawkeye supports an optional configuration file. If it is not already
installed at /etc/hawkeye.conf, you can find the sample at
/usr/share/doc/hawkeye/hawkeye.conf.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Igor Partola (igor@igorpartola.com)
